Security professionals
use a variety of tools.
One of those tools is
computer programming.
Programming is used to create
a specific set of instructions for
a computer to execute tasks.
Let's take an example
of a vending machine.
Think of a vending machine as a computer
that supplies food or drinks to customers.
To receive an item, the customer
inserts the money into the machine and
then select the item they want.
Let's say the customer provides
the machine with a value of $5.
The machine stores this value
while you make your selection.
If you select a candy bar that costs $2,
the machine takes this input,
otherwise known as an instruction,
and then understands to
output your candy bar for $2
and provides the change back of $3.
There are many programming
languages in existence.
Here, we'll focus on Python.
Python is considered to be
a general-purpose language.
This means that it can create
a variety of different programs, and
it isn't a specialized in any
particular problem in fields
such as web development and
artificial intelligence.
Python is typically used to build websites
and perform data analysis.
In security, the main reason we use Python
is to automate our tasks.
Automation is the use of
technology to reduce human and
manual effort to perform common and
repetitive tasks.
Python is generally best for
automating short, simple tasks.
For example, a security analyst
who's dealing with a security
incident might have a log
with necessary information.
Reading through these manually
would take too much time, but
Python can help sort through this so
the analysts can find what they need.
As another example, an analyst might use
Python to manage an access control list,
the list that controls who can
access the system and its resources.
It would be potentially less
consistent if the analysts had
to manually remove an employee's access
every time they left the company.
However, a Python program can
periodically monitor this instead. Or,
Python could also perform some automated
tasks like analyzing network traffic.
Though these tasks can be done
through outside applications,
they are also possible through Python.
In addition to automating
individual tasks,
Python can combine separate
tasks into one workstream.
For example, imagine a playbook indicates
that an analyst needs to resolve
a certain situation by delivering a file
and then notifying the proper individuals.
Python can connect these
processes together.
So why exactly might a security professional
choose Python for these tasks?
There are several advantages Python
has as a programming language.
For one, Python is user-friendly
because it resembles human language,
it requires less code, and
it's easy to read.
Python programmers also have the benefit
of following standard guidelines
to ensure consistency with the design and
readability of code.
Another great reason for
learning Python is that there's
a large amount of online support.
Python also has an extensive collection
of built-in code that we can import and
use to perform many different tasks.
These are just some of the reasons why
Python continues to be in high demand
across different industries
throughout the world.
You'll most likely use it
in your security career.
Wow! All of this sounds great.
Let's take a short break, and next, we'll
finally get to run some Python code.
I'll meet you in the next video.